And the correct answer is 0.043.
So, even though it received the positive
test my probability of having cancer is
just 4.3% which is not very much given
that the test itself is quite sensitive.
It gives me a 0.8 chance of
Giving a negative result,
if you don't have cancer it gives
me a .9 chance of detecting cancer,
given that I have cancer.
Now, how come this variable is so small?
Well, let's just put
all the cases together.
You already know that we
received the positive tests.
Therefore, this entry over here, and
this entry over here are relevant.
Now, the chance of hitting
a positive test and
hitting cancer is 0.009.
Well, I might, when I receive a positive
test, have cancer, not cancer.
So it is normalized by these
two possible causes for
the positive test which
is 0.009 + 0.198,
when I work these two things together,
I get 0.009/0.207 is
approximately 0.043.
But, the interesting thing in this
equation is that the chances of having
seen a positive test result in the
absence of cancers are still much, much
higher than just cancer seen in positive
result in the presence of cancer.
That's because our prior for
cancer is so
small in the population, there's
just very unlikely to have cancer.
So, the additional information
of a positive test
only raised my posterior
probability to 0.043.